# Responsible Artificial Intelligence at ULOSINO

ULOSINO has been built using contemporary development techniques and industry practices.

This approach involves the use of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) technologies.

Project contributors should review code generated by AI.

ULOSINO will never deploy AI technologies that don't emphasise developer privacy and repository safety. For example, we won't deploy automatic code refactoring on a CI pipeline that automatically updates when passed (without human interaction or intervention).

## Technology-Specific Details

### GitHub Copilot

[Noah Stanley (@fernpolo)](https://github.com/fernpolo), the primary contributor, is known to have access to the GitHub Copilot Technical Preview.

Some Source Code present across this repository may have been generated by GitHub Copilot. GitHub Copilot is a generation tool; the code generated by the system remains copyright of the contributor and subject to the Mozilla Public License 2.0.

Code generated by GitHub Copilot may not be accurate and the code may require testing.

[Learn More about GitHub Copilot...](https://copilot.github.com)

### CodeQL Security Scanning

Every line of Source Code is automatically reviewed by CodeQL technologies as part of our CI pipeline.

CodeQL aims to detect security vulnerabilities in code. If vulnerabilities are found in code attempting to merge onto the `main` branch, the check will fail and merging may not be permitted.

[Learn More about CodeQL Security Scanning on GitHub...](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/code-scanning/automatically-scanning-your-code-for-vulnerabilities-and-errors/about-code-scanning-with-codeql)

### GitHub Dependabot

Dependabot checks for package dependency updates every day.

It works with `npm` to check updates to `package.json` packages. If a newer version is available, Dependabot automatically opens a PR with the updated `package.json`. It can also open recommendation PRs if packages listed on `package.json` use versions used are known to contain security vulnerabilities.

Dependabot PRs are subject to our standard pull request checks (CI/CD pipeline) and cannot be automatically merged.

[Learn More about Dependabot on GitHub...](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/dependabot)
